# SD Skill Matrix

1. Has a positive attitude towards the end-user, colleagues and the other teams
1.1 Communicates properly with the end-user (oral)
1.2 Communicates properly with the end-user (written)
1.3 Communicates properly within the team
1.4 Communicates properly with other teams
1.5 Alerts the concerned team when (re)assigning incidents in case of urgency
2. Proactively learns new technical skills when the opportunity arises
2.1 Learns proactively (acquiring new skills/knowledge on occasions other than when the immediate need is there)
2.2 Learns when there is no impact on SLA's
2.3 Learns about identity (AD) and extending identity to the cloud (ADFS, AAD)
3. Can describe the IT service offering
3.1 Understands all articles related to workplace
3.2 Understands all articles related to access
3.3 Understands all articles related to filesharing
3.4 Understands all articles related to software
3.5 Understands all articles related to servers
4. Can describe the building blocks/processes that make up the standard workstation and can locate its technical documentation
4.1 Can describe the laptop/workstation hardware standards
4.2 Can describe the standard workstation its pre-installed software
4.3 Can describe most relevant customizations specific to the standard OS build
4.4 Can locate up-to-date technical documentation related to the standard workstation
4.5 Can locate a list of optional (standardized) software
4.6 Understands the design process of a standard workstation
5. Can describe all stages of a laptop/workstation, mobile device and printer delivery
5.1 Understands the build process of a standard workstation
5.2 Can describe the flow of a standard workstation preparation and delivery
5.3 Can describe the flow of a mobile device delivery
5.4 Can describe the process of a new MFP printer implementation
5.4 Can describe the flow of a MFP printer delivery
6. Can locate technical documentation relevant to the most critical business applications
6.1 Can name the most critical business applications
6.2 Can locate technical documentation related to critical business applications
7. Can independently search for relevant information/procedures
7.1 Can describe how to consult the IT department document repository
7.2 Understands that information is to be actively gathered and in an accurate manner
7.3 Understands that the SPOC is available to assist in case needed
8. Adequately applies procedures
8.1 Takes the correct action handling P1 & P2 escalations/reassignments
8.2 Takes the correct action handling critical business applications (incl. categorization)
8.3 Applies VIP process
8.4 Quickly detects VIP mails in the mailbox for immediate treatment
8.5 Takes the correct action when an end-user/manager informs about the status/urgency of an incident
8.6 Encodes incidents correctly (incl. categorization)
8.7 Calls the end-user back to get the outcome of a reboot or test
8.8 Applies the user unreachable process
9. Understands the ITIL concepts incident and request and can specify where the company deviates from the standard
9.1 Notices the difference between an incident and a request and advises accordingly
9.2 Handles software installation requests correctly
9.3 Understands the company its definition of consumables
9.4 Understands which type of requests are encoded by his/her team
10. Understands his/her mission as an SD operator and acts accordingly
10.1 Handles effectively within his/her scope to keep the service interruption as short and painless as possible
10.2 Minds the SLA's at all time
10.3 Minds his/her priorities at all time: calls, mails, backlog, improve
10.4 Minds the KPI's at all time
11. Adequately gathers contextual information
11.1 Gathers details about the incident impact from the viewpoint of the end-user (for incident escalations)
11.2 Gathers end-user availability information (for incident escalations)
12. Adequately troubleshoots, diagnoses and formulates technical issues
12.1 Adequately diagnoses the incident asking the right questions
12.2 Adequately applies solutions as described in the knowledge base
12.3 Applies the correct procedure to obtain help troubleshooting before escalating to another team
12.4 Properly translates the call with an acceptable level of technical detail
13. Understands that every action needs to be traceable in the ticketing tool
13.1 Swiftly and accurately encodes calls
13.2 Encodes selecting the accurate category related to the impacted or enquired service
13.3 Ensures the other teams receive the maximum of information by encoding accordingly
14. Reads and answers his/her internal e-mails
14.1 Reads his/her internal e-mails (to be aware about ongoing incidents/interventions)
14.2 Answers his/her e-mails (so that information gets where it is needed)
15. Communicates and collaborates within the team
15.1 Informs his/her team about high impact incidents
15.2 Respects the mail handling process
15.3 Shares tips and tricks using the knowledge base
16. Understands the targeting methods used to deploy standardized applications
16.1 Can describe all the targeting methods used to deploy standardized applications
16.2 Understands all the targeting methods used to deploy standardized applications (conceptually)
17. Adequately troubleshoots the tools used to deploy standardized applications
17.1 Adequately troubleshoots SCCM client issues
17.2 Adequately troubleshoots Jetro client issues
17.3 Adequately handles failed software deployments (standardized applications)
18. Understands the targeting methods used to install non-standardized applications
18.1 Can describe all the targeting methods used to deploy non-standardized applications
18.2 Understands all the targeting methods used to deploy non-standardized applications (conceptually)
19. Adequately troubleshoots the tools used to install non-standardized applications
19.1 Adequately troubleshoots LAR account issues
19.2 Adequately handles failed software deployments (non-standardized applications)
20. Adequately troubleshoots all types of remote access system issues
20.1 Can describe the client checks required for RAS connectivity (standard workstation)
20.2 Adequately troubleshoots RAS issues
